Perfect. Hi, I'm Matisse Schneider. I'm here to talk about a digital comment that I really
care about. It's called OpenFisca. And as it says here, it's the most widely adopted
free and open source engine. It's under AGPL 3 to write Rosas code. What is Rosas code?
It's the idea that if every piece of regulation, legislation had an implementation in code,
it would be kind of easier to figure out what this is all about. And this is now 13 years
old. We've been, we're used in many, many different countries. Here are some of the
countries that we are used in. There's an engine, and then there are models of the legislation.
I'm going to show you what's the sort of product that you can build on top of it. Here is a
selection. We don't have everyone here because it's on a voluntary basis to register, but
we do have quite a few. One of the most common use cases is for NGOs or governments to build
benefits assessment tools. Tools that will enable people to figure out what the hell they are
entitled to in terms of social benefits. Usually you have to figure out which agencies distribute
which benefits. Here, thanks to Rosas code, you can just talk about your situation. You
describe your personal case. You fill in your information. And then we just send this to
the Rosas code engine, which basically acts as like a big calculator, but instead of calculating
arithmetics, it calculates law. And then it's going to tell you the sort of stuff that you're
entitled to based on the current status of the legislation. So that's one most common use case.
But once you have a model of the legislation that you can interact with through APIs that you can
compute, you can do other stuff. Like for example, here, this super scary user interface is actually
used by members of parliaments in France to simulate the impact of potential reforms. So here is
the payroll of a person. And here to the left, so I'm going to do a really fast because that's a
lightning talk. So in the lightning, I'm going to now create a change in the legislation where I
increased the income revenue tax by 5%. And you can see immediately the impact on all sorts of
potential families. That's pretty cool already. You can design your own reform. But if you're a
member of parliament, you can log in and get this calculated on 60 million on the whole population
of France on real data in about one minute, thanks to the fact that Open Fiscal does vectoral
computation. But that's not limited to the governmentary users. You could do your own thing
as well with it. Here is an example of the user interface to provide some readability exploration
on legal models. That's the demonstration one. So it's a very simple model. We have the same one
for France. It has over 6,000 entries and so on. So for each country, it's going to be different.
But you can see different things. And for example, you can also see the different parameters in
legislation, such as the value of an entry in the legislation that changes. Here, for example,
is in the French model, the list of countries that are member states in the European Union. So if
you ever want to assess if one person is a national of an EU member state, you can either code this
yourself or you can just go to an authority that is going to tell you what it is and also what it
was historically. Because Open Fiscal stores all the history. So I can tell you, for example, here,
that's the initial creation of the European Union. And so you can write formulas that will take as
input that am I an EU national and depending on when you run the simulation, it's going to give you
something different. Here is, for example, the hourly rate for minimum wage and do I have to stop now?
Is it 30 seconds? No. Okay. All right. You can calculate stuff also. It's cool.